🌱 AI-Powered Eco-Friendly Fertilizer Guidance Portal

This repository contains the full stack implementation for an intelligent web application designed to provide personalized, sustainable fertilizer recommendations to farmers in real-time, based on qualitative feedback and soil/crop data.

Project Summary

The system leverages a Generative AI Agent (Gemini) orchestrated via n8n to translate natural language farmer observations (e.g., "leaves are yellow, growth is slow") into structured, actionable agricultural plans. It uniquely cross-references these plans with a simulated local stock list, ensuring all recommendations are practical and immediately available.

🏗️ Architecture and Technical Stack

The project utilizes a decoupled, three-tier architecture:

Component

Technology

Role

Frontend (Presentation)

HTML5, CSS3 (Custom), JavaScript (Fetch API)

User interface, authentication simulation, form data submission, and display of structured results.

Middleware (Orchestration)

n8n (Webhook, AI Agent, Code Node, Respond to Webhook)

API gateway, workflow management, data processing, and real-time communication pipeline.

Intelligence (Core Logic)

Gemini LLM (via API)

Performs diagnostic reasoning, formulates eco-friendly solutions, and structures the output data.

Backend (Auth - Planned)

Node.js/Express, SQL/MongoDB, JWT, OTP

Planned system for secure user registration and login (using OTP).

🚀 Key Features

Feature

Description

Value

Real-Time AI Diagnostics

Converts raw textual feedback into structured data, diagnosing the crop condition (e.g., Nitrogen Deficiency) instantly.

Bridges the gap between qualitative farmer observations and quantitative plans.

Sustainable Focus

Recommendations prioritize eco-friendly solutions (Compost, Biofertilizers, Crop Rotation) alongside necessary chemical inputs.

Promotes environmental responsibility and reduces farmer costs.

Stock-Aware Planning

AI recommendations are validated against a predefined list of available fertilizer stock, ensuring immediate feasibility.

Reduces supply chain delays and improves center inventory visibility.

Personalized Frontend

User login simulation saves the user's name locally (localStorage) and displays a personalized welcome on the dashboard.

Enhances user experience and application engagement.

Interactive Modal Form

The complex AI Feedback Form is integrated into the homepage as a click-activated modal, allowing access from any page without navigation loss.

Improves usability and application flow.

⚙️ Setup and Installation

1. Frontend Setup (Web Portal)

Clone this repository to your local machine.

Navigate to the project directory.

Serve the HTML files using a local HTTP server (e.g., VS Code Live Server or Python http.server) to avoid CORS errors.

URL should start with http://127.0.0.1:5500/.

2. Backend (n8n Workflow) Configuration

The core AI logic is contained within the n8n workflow.

Start n8n: Ensure your n8n instance is running (e.g., n8n start on port 5678).

Apply CORS: To prevent "Failed to fetch" errors, set the CORS variable to match your frontend server:

# Example for Windows Command Prompt:
set N8N_CORS_ALLOW_ORIGINS=[http://127.0.0.1:5500](http://127.0.0.1:5500)
n8n start



Import Workflow:

Open your n8n editor (http://localhost:5678).

Import the fertilizer_guidance_workflow.json file found in this repository.

Replace the API key in the AI Agent node with a valid Gemini API key.

Activate: Toggle the workflow to Active (ON) in the n8n editor.

Get Webhook URL: Copy the Production URL from the Webhook node.

3. Final Frontend Link Update

Open script.js.

Update the WEBHOOK_URL constant with the Production URL copied in Step 2.5.

const WEBHOOK_URL = 'http://localhost:5678/webhook/YOUR-UNIQUE-ID'; 



📝 Usage Flow

The intended flow for the user is:

Access: User visits index.html (Login Page).

Authentication: User logs in/signs up, which saves their name and redirects to home.html.

Analysis: On the dashboard (home.html), the user clicks the prominent "Get Instant Fertilizer Plan" button (or the "Fertilizer Guide" feature box).

Modal Opens: The AI Form appears as a modal overlay.

Submission: User submits data. JavaScript sends the payload to n8n.

Result: The clean, structured AI analysis is displayed in the #resultsDisplay area within the modal.

Feedback Loop: The farmer can optionally submit a rating and comment on the plan.

🤝 Contribution

This project is open for contribution! Please work within a dedicated feature branch and submit a Pull Request to the main branch for review.

Developed by Saumya Agarwal and Harshita Bhatia
